{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Comic Sans MS;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;\red156\green133\blue192;\red75\green172\blue198;\red0\green176\blue80;\red155\green0\blue211;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf1\b\f0\fs40\lang9 ---------------------------------\par
AZ-900 Certification\par
---------------------------------\par
\par
\cf2 CLOUD CONCEPTS\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par
\fs32\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3 1. Who is AZ-900 for?\cf0\par
\b0\fs22\tab a. Sales & Management guys to inform Senior management(VP's) about \tab using Azure i business.\par
\tab b. For developers for cloud concepts knowledge.\par
\tab c. This certification focus on billing, security & business concepts.\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. What is Cloud Computing?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\fs22 It is the practice of using network of remote servers instead of on-premise servers.\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. What are disadvantages of On-Premise?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\fs22\tab a. You own the servers.\par
\tab b. You hire the IT people.\par
\tab c. You pay or rent for the real estate.\par
\tab d. You take all the risk.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. What are advantages of Azure?\cf0\b0\par
\fs22\tab a. Microsoft own the servers.\par
\tab b. Microsoft hires the IT people.\par
\tab c. Microsoft pays for real estate.\par
\tab d. You are responsible for your code & cloud configuration, rest is \tab handled by Microsoft.\par
\fs32\par
\cf3\b 5. What is a dedicated server?\cf0\par
\b0\fs22\tab a. One physical machine dedicated to a single business.\par
\tab b. Runs a single web app.\par
\tab c. Very expensive, high maintenance.\par
\tab d. High security (Because you have full control)\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. What is virtual private server?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\fs22\tab a. One physical machine dedicated to a single business.\par
\tab b. This one machine is virtualised into sub machines to run multiple web \tab apps.\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. What is shared hosting?\cf0\fs28\par
\b0\fs22\tab a. One physical machine.\par
\tab b. Shared by hundred of businesses.\par
\tab c. Relies on tenants under-utilizing their resources.\par
\tab d. Very cheap & very limited.\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 8. What is cloud hosting?\b0\fs28\par
\cf0\fs22\tab a. Multiple physical machines that act as one system (Cloud).\par
\tab b. The system is abstracted into multiple cloud services.\par
\tab c. Flexible, Scalable, Secure, Cost-Effective, Highly configurable.\par
\fs32\par
\cf3\b 9.What are cloud services?\cf0\b0\par
\fs22\tab a. A cloud provider can have 100s of cloud services grouped together.\par
\tab b. The 4 most common type of services for IaaS are:\par
\tab\tab a. \b Compute \b0 (Virtual computer to run apps)\par
\tab\tab b. \b Storage \b0 (Virtual hard drive to store files)\par
\tab\tab c. \b Networking \b0 (Virtual network for internet configuration)\par
\tab\tab d. \b Database \b0 (Virtual DB for storing data)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 10. What is Microsoft?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
An american MNC dealing in computer technology with HQ in Redmond, Washington. Microsoft makes:\par
\tab a. Software (Windows, Skype, Outlook, Teams)\par
\tab b. Phones & Tablets\par
\tab c. Games & Gaming Consoles (XBox)\par
\b\tab d. Cloud Services (Azure)\b0\par
\tab e. Search Engine (Bing)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 11. What is Microsoft Azure?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Microsoft's cloud provider service is called "\b Microsoft Azure\b0 " or "\b Azure\b0 ".\par
Azure means \b "bright blue color of the cloudless sky"\par
\b0 Cloud service providers are commonly referred as "\b CSPs\b0 "\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 12. What are the benifits of Cloud Computing?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\b\tab a. Cost Effective\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Pay for what you consume.\par
\tab\tab ii. No up-front cost\par
\tab\tab iii. Pay-as-you-go(PAYG) where cost is shared by thousands of \tab\tab\tab customers.\par
\b\tab b. Global\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Launch workloads/apps anywhere in the world.\par
\tab\tab ii. Based on Regions.\par
\b\tab c. Secure\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Microsoft provides physical security.\par
\tab\tab ii. Cloud services are secure by default.\par
\tab\tab iii. Can configure service manually.\par
\b\tab d. Reliable\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Data Backup support\par
\tab\tab ii. Disaster Recovery support\par
\tab\tab iii. Data Replication support\par
\tab\tab iv. Fault Tolerance support\par
\b\tab e. Scalable\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Increase or decrease the cloud resources & services based on \tab\tab demand\par
\b\tab f. Elastic\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Automatic scaling during spikes & drop in demand.\par
\b\tab g. Current\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Cloud servers are patched, upgraded & replaced by Microsoft \tab\tab without interuption.\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 13. What are different type of  Cloud Computing?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\b\fs22\tab a. SaaS (Software as a Service)\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Product that is run & managed by CSP.\par
\tab\tab ii. We just use this product (Only for customers)\par
\tab\tab iii. Skype, Teams, Salesforce.\par
\tab\tab\b iv. Don't worry about the maintainance, it just works and \tab\tab\tab remain available.\par
\b0\par
\tab\b b. PaaS (Platform as a Service)\par
\b0\tab\tab i. Focus on the deployment & management of your apps.\par
\tab\b\tab ii. Don't worry about the provisioning, configuring, OS & \tab\tab\tab hardware.\par
\tab\tab\b0 iii. Heroku, Elastic Beanstalk.\par
\par
\b\tab c. IaaS (Infrastructure as a Service)\b0\par
\tab\tab i. The basic building block of Cloud IT.\par
\tab\tab ii. Provide access to networking features, computers & storage.\par
\tab\tab\b iii. Don;t worry about IT staff, data centres & hardware.\par
\tab\tab\b0 iv. Azure, AWS & GCP\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 14. What are Cloud computing responsibilities?\cf0\fs22\par
\b0\tab\b a. On premise\b0\par
\tab\tab i. All responsibility is on customer.\par
\b\tab b. SaaS\b0\par
\tab\tab i. All responsibility is on CSP (Microsoft).\par
\b\tab c. IaaS\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Customer is responsible of:\par
\tab\tab\tab a. Application\par
\tab\tab\tab b. Data\par
\tab\tab\tab c. Runtime\par
\tab\tab\tab d. Middleware\par
\tab\tab\tab e. OS\par
\tab\tab ii. Microsoft is responsible for:\par
\tab\tab\tab a. Virtualization\par
\tab\tab\tab b. Servers\par
\tab\tab\tab c. Storage\par
\tab\tab\tab d. Networking\par
\b\tab d. PaaS\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Customer is responsible for:\par
\tab\tab\tab a. Application & data only\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 15. What are Azure deployment models?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\fs22\tab\b i. Public Cloud (Cloud native)\b0\par
\tab\tab a. Everything built on the Cloud Provider\par
\tab\b\tab b. Most Cost Effective\b0\par
\tab\tab c. Least configuration & technical knowledge\par
\tab\tab\par
\b\tab ii. Private Cloud (On premise)\b0\par
\tab\tab a. Everything built on company's datacentre.\tab\par
\tab\tab b. This cloud could be \b OpenStack\b0 .\par
\tab\b\tab c. Most Expensive\b0\par
\tab\tab d. Need more technical knowledge\par
\tab\b iii. Hybrid\b0\par
\tab\tab On-premise & Cloud connected together using fiber optics \tab\tab\tab (\b ExpressRoute\b0 )\par
\tab\b iv. Cross Cloud (Multi CLoud)\b0\par
\tab\tab a. Using multiple cloud providers\par
\tab\tab b. Azure Arc\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 16. What is Total Cost of Ownership (TCO)?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab\b a. Cap-ex (Capital expenditure) (Hidden costs)\par
\b0\tab\tab i. Software license fees\par
\tab\tab ii. Implementation, Configuration & Training.\par
\tab\tab iii. Physical Security\par
\tab\tab iv. Hardware\par
\tab\tab v. IT Staff\par
\b\tab b. Op-ex (Operational expenditure)\par
\tab\tab\b0 i. Subscription fees\par
\tab\tab ii. Implementation, Configuration & Traning only.\par
\tab\tab iii. Nothing else!\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b Saving of 75% from moving on-premise to Cloud\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 17. What is Capital Expenditure (Capex)?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\fs22\tab a. Spending money upfront pn physical infra (Computers, hard drives, \tab routers, cables, backup, disaster recovery, electricity, physical security, \tab IT staff)\par
\tab b. Deducting that expense from your tax bill over time.\par
\tab c. \b Guess the expenses upfront.\b0\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 18. What is Operational Expenditure (Opex)?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. The cost associated with on-premise is shifted to Microsoft.\par
\tab b. You only have to deal with non-physical costs.\par
\tab c. Renting software features, training people in cloud services, paying for \tab cloud support, billing based on usage (cloud & storage)\par
\tab d. \b Use a service without investing in equipment.\b0\par
\fs28\par
\cf3\b\fs32 19. Cloud Terminologies?\cf0\b0\fs28\par
\b\fs22\tab a. Availability\b0\par
\tab\tab Ability to ensure a service remains available (Highly Available)\par
\b\tab b. Scalability\b0\par
\tab\tab Ability to grow rapidly or unimpeded\par
\b\tab c. Elasticity\b0\par
\tab\tab Ability to grow or shrink based on demand\par
\tab\b d. Fault Tolerance\par
\b0\tab\tab Ability to prevent a failure\par
\b\tab e. Disaster Recovery\b0\par
\tab\tab Ability to recover from failure (High Durability)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 20. What is High Availablity?\tab\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Ability of cloud service to remain available.\tab\par
\tab b. Achieved by ensuring thers is no single point of failure.\par
\tab c. Achieved by having multiple servers at multiple data centres to prevent \tab single point of failure.\par
\tab d. Running workloads across multiple \b data centres (Availability zones) \tab\b0 ensures that if 1 or 2 AZ's become unavailable, your service remains \tab available.\par
\b\tab e. Common to have 3 servers in 3 different data centres(AZ)\par
\par
\cf3\fs32 21. What is Azure Load Balancer?\cf0\fs22\par
\b0  \tab a. Allows to evenly distribute traffic to multiple servers.\par
\tab b. If one datacentre or server is not available (unhealthy), the LB routes \tab the traffic to other available data centres with servers.\par
\b\par
\cf3\fs32 22. What is High Scalability?\cf0\fs22\par
\b0\tab a. Ability to increase your capacity (resources) based on increasing \tab traffic, memory & cmputing power.\par
\b\tab b. Vertical Scaling (Scaling Up)\par
\b0\tab\tab Upgrade to bigger server.\par
\b\tab c. Horizontal Scaling (Scaling Out)\b0\par
\tab\tab Adding more servers of same size.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 23. What is High Elasicity?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Automatic increase/decrease capacity based on current demand of \tab traffic, memory & computing power.\par
\b\tab b. Horizontal Scaling is used.\par
\tab\tab i. Scaling Out (Adding more servers of same size)\par
\tab\tab ii. Scaling In (Removing more servers of same size)\par
\tab\b0 c. Vertical Scaling is not used as its difficult to increase/decrease \tab\tab resources on single server.\par
\tab d. This can be achieved by using \b Azure VM Scale Sets:\par
\b0\tab\tab\b Automatic increase or decrease in response to demand or a \tab\tab defined schedule.\par
\tab\b0 and \b Aure SQL Stretch Database:\b0\par
\tab\tab\b Dynamically stretch warm & cold SQL server 2016 to Azure.\par
\par
\cf3\fs32 24. What is High Durability?\cf0\fs22\par
\tab\b0 a. Ability to recover from a disaster and to prevent data loss.\par
\tab b. Solutions that recover from disaster is called \b Disaster Recovery(DR).\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Do you have a backup?\par
\tab\tab ii. How fast can you restore that backup?\par
\tab\tab iii. Does your backup still work?\par
\tab\tab iv. How to ensure current live data is not corrupt?\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 25. What is Highly Fault Tolerant?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Ability to ensure that there is no single point of failure.\par
\tab b. Preventing the chance of failure.\par
\tab c. Fail-overs when you have a plan to shift to  secondary system in case \tab the primary system fails.\par
\tab d. Achieved by \b Azure Traffic Manager:\par
\tab\tab A DNS based traffic balancer to fail-over from primary \tab\tab\tab system to a stand-by secondary system.\b0\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
EVOLUTION OF COMPUTING\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. What are different types of computing?\cf0\fs22\par
\b0\tab a. Dedicated\par
\tab b. Virtual Machines (VMs)\par
\tab c. Containers\par
\tab d. Functions\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. What is dedicated computing?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A physical server wholly utilized by a single customer.\par
\tab b. You have to guess the capacity, you'll overpay for an undertilized \tab\tab server.\par
\tab c. Upgrading server will be slow & expensive.\par
\tab d. Limited Operating System (Only 1)\par
\tab e. Multiple apps can result in conflicts in resource sharing.\par
\tab f. Guaranteed Security, Privacy & full utility of resources.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. What is a Virtual Machine?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Submachines created & running in a single machine.\par
\tab b. Multiple VMs can be created in a single machine.\par
\tab c. A physical server shared by multiple customer.\par
\tab d. \cf1\b Hypervisor\cf3  \cf0\b0 is the software layer that runs VMs.\par
\tab e. You pay for a fraction of the server.\par
\tab f. You'll overpay for the underutilized VM.\par
\tab g. Limited by guest OS.\par
\tab h. Multiple apps on single VM can create resource sharing conflicts.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. What are Containers?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Virtual machines running multiple containers.\par
\tab b. \cf1\b Docker Daemon \cf0\b0 is the software thet let us run multiple containers.\par
\tab c. Maximum utilization of the available capacity.\par
\tab d. Share same OS so are more efficient.\par
\tab e. Multiple apps can run side by side without resource conflicts.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. What are Functions?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Broke apps into small functions.\par
\tab b. A managed VMs running managed containers.\par
\tab c. It is known as Serverless Computing.\par
\tab d. You upload a piece of code, then choose the amount of memory & \tab duration.\par
\tab e. Only pay for the time code is running.\par
\tab f. VMs only run when there is code to be executed.\par
\tab g. Disadvantages is \cf1\b Cold Starts (server starting time)\b0\par
\cf3\tab\cf0\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Global Infra - Regions & Geographies\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. What is a Region?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is a group of multiple datacentres (Availability Zones).\par
\tab b. Azure has \cf1\b 58 Regions \cf0\b0 across \cf1\b 140 countries.\cf0\b0\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. What is a Geography?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is a discreet market of two or more regions that preserves\par
\tab\tab i. \cf1\b Data Residency \cf0\b0 (All data should reside in Canada/US/India)\par
\tab\tab ii. \cf1\b Compliance of boundaries \cf0\b0 (Country laws & guidelines)\par
\tab b. Geographies are:\par
\tab\tab i. United States\par
\tab\tab ii. Azure Government (US)\par
\tab\tab iii. Canada\par
\tab\tab iv. Brazil\par
\tab\tab v. Mexico\par
\tab c. While creating a VM in Azure, we need to select a region like:\par
\tab\tab i. (US) East US\par
\tab\tab ii. (Asia Pacific)\par
\tab\tab iii. (Europe)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. What is a Paired Region?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Each region is paired with another region 300 miles away.\par
\tab b. Only one region is updated at a time to ensure no outages.\par
\tab c. \cf1\b Disaster Recovery \cf0\b0 is the Azure Service that use paired regions.\par
\tab d. \cf1\b Azure Geo-Reduntant Storage (GRS) \cf0\b0 replicates data to secondary \tab region automatically, ensuring that data is durable even if the primary \tab region is not recovarable.\par
\tab e. Example:\par
\tab\tab i. Canada (Primary - Canada Central) (Secondary - Canada East)\par
\tab\tab ii. North America (Primary - East US) (Secondary - West US)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Does all azure cloud services available in every Region?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
Not all services are available in every region\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. What is a Recommended Region?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A region that provides broad range of services.\par
\tab b. The majority services are available in this region.\par
\tab c. \cf1\b designed to support Avalability Zones\cf0\b0  now or in the future.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. What is a Alrenate (Other) Region?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A region that extends Azure footprints within a data residency \tab\tab boundary where a recommended region also exists. \par
\tab b. Not designed to support \cf1\b Availability Zones.\par
\tab\cf0\b0 c. These regions are labeled as \cf1\b Other \cf0\b0 in Azure Portal.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. What is a General Availability?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Is when a service is considered ready to be used publicly by everyone.\par
\tab b. There are 3 type of Azure Cloud services:\par
\tab\cf1\b\tab i. Foundational\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab\tab Available immediately or in 12 months in Recommended & \tab\tab\tab Alternate regions once GA is announced.\par
\tab\tab\cf1\b ii. Mainstream\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab\tab Available immediately or in 12 months in Recommended \tab\tab\tab\tab Regions but may become available in Alternate Regions \tab\tab\tab\tab based on customer demand.\par
\tab\tab\cf1\b iii. Specialized\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab\tab Available in Recommended & Alternate Regions on customer \tab\tab\tab demands.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 8. What are Special Regions in Azure?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22 Azure has special regions to meet Compliance or Legal reasons. Examples:\par
\tab a. US DoD Central\par
\tab b. US GOv Virginia\par
\tab c. US GoV Iowa\par
\tab d. 3 other secret locations of US Gov.\par
\tab e. China East & China North (Partnership with chinese company 21Vianet)\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 9. What are Availability Zones in Azure?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is a physical location made up of one or more datacenter.\par
\tab b. A datacentre is a secured building that contains thousands of PCs.\par
\tab c. A region generally contain \cf1\b 3 Availability Zones.\cf0\b0\par
\tab d. Datacentres within a region will be isolated from each other (different \tab buildings) but close enough to provide low latency.\par
\tab e. Common practice to run workloads in \cf1\b at least three AZs \cf0\b0 to ensure \tab high availability in case 1 or 2 datacentres fail.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 10. What are AZ supported regions in Azure?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Not every region has support for Availability Zones.\par
\tab b. These regions are called \cf1\b Alternate \cf0\b0 or \cf1\b Other \cf0\b0 regions.\par
\tab c. Recommended regions are supposed to have at least 3 AZs.\par
\tab d. Example regions having minimum 3 AZs:\par
\tab\tab i. Central US\par
\tab\tab ii. East US 2\par
\tab\tab iii. West US 2\par
\tab\tab iv. West Europe\par
\tab\tab v. France Central\par
\tab\tab vi. North Europe\par
\tab\tab vii. Southeast Asia\par
\tab e. For regions that don't have AZs select \cf1\b "No infrastructure \tab redundency required" \cf0\b0 in Azure Portal.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 11. What are Fault and Update Domains in Azure?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b Availability Zone \cf0 = \cf4 (Fault Domain)\cf0  + \cf5 (Update Domain)\b0\par
\cf0\b\tab b. \cf1 Fault Domain\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab i. A logical grouping of hardware to avoid a single point of failure \tab\tab within an AZ. \par
\tab\tab ii. Group of VMs that share a common power source and network \tab\tab switch.\par
\tab c. \cf5\b Update Domain\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab i. Azure may need to apply updates to the hardware & oftware.\par
\tab\tab ii. Update domains ensure that the resources donot go offline.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 12. What are Availability Sets?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A logical grouping that you can use in Azure to ensure that the VMs you \tab place in the Availability Sets are different fault/update domains to avoid \tab downtime.\cf5\par
\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Compute Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Virtual Machines\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Windows or Linux VMs.\par
\tab b. The most common type of compute.\par
\tab c. You choe your OS, Memory, CPU, Storage.\par
\tab d. You share hardware with other customers.\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
2. Azure Container Instances\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. \cf1\b Docker as a Service \cf0\b0 runs containerized apps on Azure.\par
\tab b. No provisioning servers & VMs required.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b Kubernetes as a Service.\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. Easy to deploy, manage & scale containerized applications.\par
\tab c. Uses open source \cf1\b Kubernetes (K8) \cf0\b0 software.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Service Fabric\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b Tier 1 Enterprise Containers as a Service\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. Distributed systems platform.\par
\tab c. Runs in Azure or on-premises.\par
\tab d. Easy to package, deploy & manage scalable & reliable \cf1\b microservices\cf0\b0 .\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Azure Functions\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Event-driven, serverless compute (functions).\par
\tab b. Run code without provisioning or managing servers.\par
\tab c. You pay only for the \cf1\b compute time \cf0\b0 you consume.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Azure Batch\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Plans, Schedule & execute your batch computer workloads across 100+ \tab jobs in parallel.\par
\tab b. Use spot VMs to save money (prev used low-priority VMs to save \tab compute)\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Storage Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Blob Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is known as \cf1\b Object Serverless Storage\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. Store very large files & large amount of unstructured files.\par
\tab c. \cf1\b Pay for what you store.\cf0\b0\par
\tab d. Unlimited storage, no resizing volumes, filesystem protocols.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure Disk Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A virtual volume (Hard disk in cloud)\par
\tab b. Choose SSD or HDD\par
\tab c. Encryption by default, attach volume to VMs.\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
3. Azure File Storage\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. A shared volume that you can access and manage like a file server \tab SMB)\par
\tab b. Multiple VMs can access a single file storage.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Queue Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is known as \cf1\b Messaging Queue.\cf0\par
\b0\tab b. A data store for queuing and reliabely delivering messages between \tab pplications.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Azure Table Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b Wide-Column NoSQL database.\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. A NoSQL store that hosts unstructured data independent of any  \tab schema.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Azure DataBox / Azure Databox Heavy\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A rugged briefcase computer & storage designed to move TB's or PBs \tab of data.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. Azure Archive Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Long term cold storage for when you need to hold onto files for years \tab at the cheapest rate.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 8. Azure Data Lake Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A centralized repository that allows you to store all your structured & \tab unstructured data at any scale.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Database Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Cosmos DB\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A fully managed NoSQL DB.\par
\tab b. Designed for scale with \cf1\b 99.999% availability.\cf0\b0\par
\tab c. Microsoft's flagship DB.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure SQL DB\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Fully managed SQL DB\par
\tab b. Designed for Auto-Scale, Integral Intelligence & robust security\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. Azure DB for MySQL / PSQL / MariaDB\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Fully managed and scalable MySQL/PostgreSQL/Maria DB.\par
\tab b. High availability & security.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. SQL Server on VMs.\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Host enterprise SQL server apps in the cloud.\par
\tab b. Lift-and-shift MS SQL servers from on-premise to Azure Cloud.\par
\fs32\par
\cf3\b 5. Azure Synapse Analytics (Azure SQL Data Warehouse)\cf0\b0\par
\fs22\tab a. Fully managed Data Warehouse with integral security at every level of \tab scale at extra cost.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Azure DB Migration Service\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Migrate your databases to the cloud with no application code changes.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. Azure Cache for Redis\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Caches frequently used and static data to reduce data & application \tab latency.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Integration Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
This is used to allows different Azure services to communicate with each othe \par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Notifications Hub\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b Publisher/Subscriber\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. Send push notifications to any platform from any backend.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure API Apps\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. \cf1\b API Gateway\par
\cf0\b0\tab b. Quickly build and consume APIs in the cloud.\par
\tab c. Route APIs to Azure Services.\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
3. Azure Service Bus\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. \cf1\b Service Bus\cf0\b0\par
\tab b. Reliable cloud messaging as a Service (MaaS).\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Stream Analytics\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Serverless \cf1\b real-time analytics, \cf0\b0 from the cloud to the edge.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Azure Logic Apps\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Schedule, Automate & Orchestrate tasks, business processes & workflows.\par
\tab b.Integration with Enterprise SaaS & entrrise applications.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Azure API Management\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Hybrid, multi-cloud management platform for APIs\par
\tab b. Put in front of existing API's to add additional functionlity.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Dev-Mobile Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\fs32\par
\cf3\b 1. Azure SignalR service\cf0\b0\par
\fs22\tab a. Real-time Messaging\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure App Service\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Easy to use service for deploying & scaling web apps.\par
\tab b. .NET, Java, Python, Node.js & PHP are supported.\par
\tab c. Focus on developing app and not on underlying infra.\par
\tab d. Equivalent of Heroku.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. Visual Studio\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. IDE for creating applications\par
\tab b. Code Editor.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Xamarin\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Mobile App Framework for developing native mobile apps.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure DevOps Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Plan smarter, collaborate and ship faster with set of modern dev services.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Boards\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Kanban\par
\tab b. Agile Tools\par
\tab c. Used to plan, track & discuss work across your teams.\par
\cf3\fs32\par
\b 2. Azure Pipelines\b0\par
\cf0\fs22\tab a. Continuous Integration / Continuous Development (CI/CD)\par
\tab b. Connect to GitHubor any Git provider and deploy continuously.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. Azure Repos\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Unlimited cloud hosted private Git repos.\par
\tab b. Like GitHub\par
\b\par
\cf3\fs32 4. Azure Test Plans\cf0\fs22\par
\b0\tab a. Test & ship with confidence using manual & exploratory testing tools.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Azure Artifacts\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Create, host and share packages with your team\par
\tab b. Add artifacts to CI/CD pipelines with single click.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Azure DevTest Labs\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Fast, easy & lean dev test environment\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Resource Manager\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs32\par
1. What is infrastructure as a code (IAC)?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. The process of managing datacentres through code (scripts).\par
\tab b. No need for physical hardware configurations\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure Resource Manager (ARM)\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Azure's IAC service\par
\tab b. Allows to create a resource (VM) through JSON code.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure QuickStart Templates\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. What is Azure QuickStart?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
It is a library of a \cf1\b pre-made ARM templates \cf0\b0 provided by the community and partners to help you quickly launch new projects.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Virtual Network & Subnets\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
1. What is a Virtual Network (vNet)?\par
\tab a. It is a logically isolated section of the Azure network where you launch your \tab Azure resources.\par
\tab b. You choose a range of IPs using \b CIDR \b0 range.\par
\tab c. CIDR Range - \b 10.0.0.0/16 = 65536 \b0 IP Addresses\par
\tab d. Subnets are a logical partition of an IP network into multiple smaller network.\par
\tab e. You are breaking up your IP range for VNet into smaller networks.\par
\tab f. Subnets need to have a smaller CIDR range than to the vNET.\par
\tab Subnect CIDR range - 10.0.0.0/24 = 256 IP addresses\par
\par
2. What is a Private Subnet?\par
\tab a. One that can reach the internet (WebApp)\par
\par
3. WHat is a Public subnet?\par
\tab a. one that cannot reach the internet (Datatbase)\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Cloud Native Networking Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs32 1. Azure DNS\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Provides fast DNS responses & high domain availability.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure Virtual Network (vNET)?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A logical isolated section of the Azure network to launch resources.\par
\b\par
\cf3\fs32 3. Azure Load Balancer?\cf0\fs22\par
\b0\tab a. OSI Level 4 (Transport) Load Balancer.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Application Gateway?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a OSI Level 7 (HTTP) load balancer, can apply a web application firewall.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Network Security Groups?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab A virtual firewall at the subnet level.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Enterprise/Hybrid Networking Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. Azure Front Door\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Scalable & secure entry point for fast delivery of global applications.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure Express Route?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A connection between your on-premise to Azure cloud\par
\tab b. High speed optic fibers\par
\tab c. Spped is 50 MBPS - 10 GBPS\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
3. Virtual WAN\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. It brings networking, security & routing functionalities together.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Connection?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A VPN connection securely connects two Azure local network via IPsec.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Virtual Network Gateway?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. A site-to-site VPN connection between an Azure virtual network & your local \tab network.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. What is Azure Traffic manager?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Operates at the DNS layer to quickly and efficiently direct incoming requests \tab based on routing method of your choice.\par
\tab b. Route traffic to servers geographically near to user.\par
\tab c. Fail over to secondary systems in case primary ones fail.\par
\tab d. Roue to random VM to simulate A/B testing.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. What is Azure DNS?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Allows to host your domain names on Azure.\par
\tab b. You can create DNS Zones and manage your DNS records.\par
\tab c. You cannot purchase DNS names.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 8. What is Azure Load Balancer?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Used to evenly distributed incoming network traffic across a group of \tab servers.\par
\tab b. Operates on \cf1\b OSI Layer 4 (Transport)\cf0\b0\par
\tab c. Two types:\par
\tab\cf1\b\tab i. Public Load Balancer\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab Distributes incoming traffic from the internet to public-facing servers \tab\tab\tab (public IPs)\par
\tab\tab\cf1\b ii. Private Load Balancer (Internal)\cf0\b0\par
\tab\tab Distribute incoming internal network traffic to private-facing servers \tab\tab\tab (Private IPS)\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
9. What are Azure Scale Sets?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. Allows you to scale horizontally automatically based on usage.\par
\tab b Can be increased or decreased.\par
\tab c. Can be based on usage or can be scheduled.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure IoT Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. IoT Central\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Connects your IoT devices to the cloud.\par
\cf3\fs32\par
2. IoT Hub\par
\cf0\fs22\tab a. Provide highly secure & reliable communication between IoT application & the \tab devices.\par
\par
\cf3\fs32 3. IoT Edge\cf0\fs22\par
\tab a. Fully managed service build on IoT hub.\par
\tab b. Allows to transfer load from cloud to local IoT devices.\par
\par
\cf3\fs32 4. Windows 10 IoT COre Services?\cf0\fs22\par
\tab a. A subscription that provides the services needed to commercialize a device \tab on windows 10 IoT core.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure BigData & Analytics Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs32\par
1. What is Big Data?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. Massive amount of structured/unstructured data (TBs/PBs)\par
\tab b. Difficult to process using traditional DB & techniques.\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
2. Azure Synapse Analytics?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. Enterprise Data Warehousing & Big Data Analytics\par
\tab b. Run SQL queries against large databases.\par
\cf3\b\fs32\par
3. What is Azure HDInsight?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. Oper source analytics software.\par
\tab b. Hadoop, Kafka & Spark\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. What is Azure Databricks?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Apche SPark based analytics platform.\par
\tab b. Optimised for Azure Cloud.\par
\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. What is Azure Data Lake Analytics?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Ondemand analytics job service that simplifies big data.\par
\tab b. A data lake is a storage to store vast amount of raw data until it is needed.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure AI/ML Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf3\fs32\par
1. WHat is AI?\par
\cf0\b0\fs22\tab a. Machines that performs job that mimic human behaviour.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. WHat is ML?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is part of AI.\par
\tab b. Machines that improves itself learning from its past mistakes.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. What is Deep Learning?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. It is a part of Machine Learning.\par
\tab b. It has Artificial Neural Network inspired by human brain.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Azure Machine Learning Service?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Simplifies running AI/ML related workloads.\par
\tab b. Use Python, R & Tensorflow.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Personalizer\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Deliver rich, personalized experiences for every user.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 6. Translator\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Add real time multi language text translation to your apps.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 7. Anomaly Detector\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Detect anomalies in data to identify & fix issues.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 8. Azure Bot Service\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Bot service that scales on demand\par
\cf3\b\fs32 9. Form Recogniser\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Automate the extraction of text, key-value from documents.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 10. Computer Vision\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Customise computer vision models.\tab\par
\cf3\b\fs32 11. Language Understanding\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Build natural language understanding into apps\par
\cf3\b\fs32 12. QnA Maker\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Create QnA bot from existing content.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 13. Text Analytics\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Extract info such as sentiment, names, language from text.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 14. Content Moderator\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Moderate text and images to provide safe UX.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 15. Face\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Face detection in images\par
\cf3\b\fs32 16. Ink Recogniser\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Recognise digital ink content.\par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf2\b\fs40 ---------------------------------\par
Azure Serverless Services\par
---------------------------------\cf0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\par
\cf3\b\fs32 1. What is Serverless?\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. When server infra is managed by CSP.\par
\tab b. Pay for compute time (Micro Billing)\par
\tab c. Highly available, Scalable & cost effective\par
\tab d. Event-driven (Triggers on event)\par
\tab e. Abstraction of Servers \par
\cf3\b\fs32 2. Azure Functions\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab a. Run small amount of code in serverless\par
\cf3\b\fs32 3. Blob Storage\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Serverless object storage, just upload files\par
\cf3\b\fs32 4. Logic Apps\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Allows to build serverless workflows\par
\cf3\b\fs32 5. Event Grid\cf0\b0\fs22\par
\tab Uses Pub/Sub messaging system to allow you to react to events & trigger\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\f1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\par
\b0\f0\par
}
 